# 1. Course Fundamentals and AWS Accounts

## 1.1 AWS Accounts - The Basics
### AWS Accounts
- An AWS Account is a container for identities(users) and Resources.
    - An AWS account contains users which you login with, and resources, which you provision.
    - The Account ROOT USER has full control over all of THIS AWS ACCOUNT and any resources created within it AND can't be restricted.
### IAM
- Identity and Access Management (IAM) Users, Groups, and Roles can also be created and given FULL or LIMITED permissions.
    - Any IAM identity starts with no permissions.
### AWS Account Security
- AWS Accounts can contain the impact of admin errors, or exploits by bad actors.
    - Ideally, you would use separate accounts for separate things (DEV, TEST, PROD).
- By default all access to an AWS Account is denied except for the Account Root User.

## 1.2 Multi-Factor Authentication (MFA)
- Without MFA a static username and an infrequently changing password are needed to login.
- MFA device/app generates a code every 30 seconds. This code is needed together with username and password.
- AWS generates Secret Key and additional information (user, etc.).
- QR Code is generated based on the secret key and additional information.
- QR Code is scanned, which adds key and info within app.
- Now, even if username and password are leaked, you need to still provide MFA code to login.

## 1.3 Identity and Access Management (IAM) Basics
- Least Privileged Access: Only giving the permissions required to do a job, or perform a task to users, groups, or even applications.
- Every AWS service comes with its own copy of IAM, its own database.
    - **IAM is a globally resilient service, so any data is always secure across all AWS regions.**
    - Your instance of IAM has FULL TRUST within your AWS account.
        - Full Trust: Has all authorization (permissions) the account and account root user has.
- IAM lets you create 3 different types of identity objects.
    - IAM User
        - Identities which represent humans or applications that need access to your AWS account.
        - Used for **individual** users or applications.
    - IAM Group
        - Collection of related users e.g. development team, finance or HR.
    - IAM Role
        - Can be used by AWS Services, or for granting external access to your AWS account.
        - Tends to get used when there are an uncertain amount of users or applications.
- IAM Policy
    - IAM allows you to create policies (which are essentially objects or documents) which can be used to allow or deny access to AWS Services.
    - This only occurs when and only when they are attached to IAM Users, Groups, or Roles.
    - Policies on their own do nothing.
- IAM has 3 main jobs.
    - Manages Identites - An ID Provider (IDP): Creates and manages identities.
    - Authenticates Identities: Prove you are who you claim to be.
    - Authorize Identities: Allow or deny access to resources.
- Key Notes on IAM:
    - No cost
    - Global service / Global resilience
    - ALLOW or DENY its identities on its AWS account
    - No direct control on external accounts or users
    - Identity federation and MFA
        - Identity federation: allows the use of other accounts as verification e.g. Login via Google, Facebook, ... accounts.

## 1.4 IAM Access Keys
- Access keys are long-term credentials, they don't change regularly or automatically.
- An IAM User has 1 username and 1 password (password can be optional)
- An IAM User can have two access keys
- Access keys can be created, deleted, made inactive or made active
- Access keys contain 2 parts:
    - Access Key ID (ex: AKIAOSFODNN7EXAMPLE)
    - Secret Access Key (ex: wJalrXUtnFEMI/K7MDENG/bPxRfiCYEXAMPLEKEY)
- Rotating Access Keys: Create a new access key to replace the old ones.